README.md, before:

# 🛒 Dolly Carton

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/agrc/dolly-carton/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/agrc/dolly-carton)

Automated pipeline for syncing SGID data in internal to ArcGIS Online

This is a GCP Cloud Run job that is kicked off from the [AGOL Forklift pallet](https://github.com/agrc/warehouse/blob/main/sgid/~AGOLPallet.py).

## What it does

1. Determines which tables have changed by comparing per-table hashes from `SGID.Meta.ChangeDetection` with previously stored hashes in Firestore (staging/prod) or dev mocks (dev)
2. Creates a single file geodatabase containing only the changed tables for service updates and a separate one for each newly published service
3. Publishes new feature services or updates existing ones in ArcGIS Online
4. Persists the new table hashes only after a successful publish/update so failed tables are retried on the next run

### Change Detection

Change detection is done at the table level using the `hash` column in `SGID.Meta.ChangeDetection`.

Production:
- A Firestore document maintains a map of table names to their last successfully published hash.
- Current hashes are queried; any mismatch (or missing entry) marks the table for processing.
- After a table finishes successfully its hash is written back; failed tables are left untouched and will be retried next run.

Dev / Staging:
- The file `src/dolly/dev_mocks.json` contains an `updated_tables` list that simulates which tables have “changed”. Deterministic fake hashes (e.g. `dev-hash-0`) are generated for testing logic.
- The firestore document is updated with fake hashes. In dev this happens in the firestore emulator.

CLI override:
- You can bypass automatic change detection with `--tables` to force specific tables to process. Their current hashes are then stored (staging/prod) after success.

Firestore structure (staging/prod):

```
Collection: dolly-carton
	Document: state
		{
			"sgid.society.cemeteries": "abc123",
			"sgid.transportation.roads": "def456",
			...
		}
```

This enables reliable retry semantics: only fully successful tables advance their stored hash.

## Setup

Open project in VS Code and select "Reopen in Container"

### Configuration

Create `src/dolly/secrets/secrets.dev.json` based on `src/dolly/secrets/secrets_template.json`

## Usage

```bash
# Process all changed tables
dolly

# Process specific tables
dolly --tables "sgid.society.cemeteries,sgid.boundaries.municipalities"

# Clean up the AGOL items created by the `dolly` command in the dev environment (both local and the dev GCP project). This is useful for resetting your AGOL state between runs.
dolly-cleanup-dev-agol
```

### Manually running production environment locally

Assuming that you have a `secrets.prod.json` file.

```bash
APP_ENVIRONMENT=prod dolly --tables sgid.environment.deqmap_lust,sgid.environment.tankpst,sgid.environment.uicfacility
```

## Development

Development environment is pre-configured with VS Code dev containers.

```bash
# All dependencies are pre-installed in the dev container

# Test
pytest

# Format
ruff format . --write
```

## App Environments

`APP_ENVIRONMENT` is an indicator of what environment the code is running in. This is set in the Dockerfile or Github Actions.

- `dev`: Development environment (local)
- `staging`: Staging environment (GCP)
- `prod`: Production environment (GCP)

Commit message:

feat: upgrade to use supervisor for slack messaging

README.md, after:

# 🛒 Dolly Carton

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/agrc/dolly-carton/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/agrc/dolly-carton)

Automated pipeline for syncing SGID data in internal to ArcGIS Online

This is a GCP Cloud Run job that is kicked off from the [AGOL Forklift pallet](https://github.com/agrc/warehouse/blob/main/sgid/~AGOLPallet.py).

## What it does

1. Determines which tables have changed by comparing per-table hashes from `SGID.Meta.ChangeDetection` with previously stored hashes in Firestore (staging/prod) or dev mocks (dev)
2. Creates a single file geodatabase containing only the changed tables for service updates and a separate one for each newly published service
3. Publishes new feature services or updates existing ones in ArcGIS Online
4. Persists the new table hashes only after a successful publish/update so failed tables are retried on the next run

### Change Detection

Change detection is done at the table level using the `hash` column in `SGID.Meta.ChangeDetection`.

Production:
- A Firestore document maintains a map of table names to their last successfully published hash.
- Current hashes are queried; any mismatch (or missing entry) marks the table for processing.
- After a table finishes successfully its hash is written back; failed tables are left untouched and will be retried next run.

Dev / Staging:
- The file `src/dolly/dev_mocks.json` contains an `updated_tables` list that simulates which tables have “changed”. Deterministic fake hashes (e.g. `dev-hash-0`) are generated for testing logic.
- The firestore document is updated with fake hashes. In dev this happens in the firestore emulator.

CLI override:
- You can bypass automatic change detection with `--tables` to force specific tables to process. Their current hashes are then stored (staging/prod) after success.

Firestore structure (staging/prod):

```
Collection: dolly-carton
	Document: state
		{
			"sgid.society.cemeteries": "abc123",
			"sgid.transportation.roads": "def456",
			...
		}
```

This enables reliable retry semantics: only fully successful tables advance their stored hash.

## Setup

Open project in VS Code and select "Reopen in Container"

### Configuration

Create `src/dolly/secrets/secrets.dev.json` based on `src/dolly/secrets/secrets_template.json`

## Usage

```bash
# Process all changed tables
dolly

# Process specific tables
dolly --tables "sgid.society.cemeteries,sgid.boundaries.municipalities"

# Clean up the AGOL items created by the `dolly` command in the dev environment (both local and the dev GCP project). This is useful for resetting your AGOL state between runs.
dolly-cleanup-dev-agol
```

### Manually running production environment locally

Assuming that you have a `secrets.prod.json` file.

```bash
APP_ENVIRONMENT=prod dolly --tables sgid.environment.deqmap_lust,sgid.environment.tankpst,sgid.environment.uicfacility
```

## Development

Development environment is pre-configured with VS Code dev containers.

```bash
# All dependencies are pre-installed in the dev container

# Test
pytest

# Format
ruff format . --write
```

### Slack summary message testing

Use scripts/post_slack_summary_test_messages.py to post a set of Slack messages that exercise the full range of summary content (success, table errors, global errors, and empty runs). The script uses the real Dolly summary builder and your configured SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL from secrets to send the messages, so point it at a test channel.

## App Environments

`APP_ENVIRONMENT` is an indicator of what environment the code is running in. This is set in the Dockerfile or Github Actions.

- `dev`: Development environment (local)
- `staging`: Staging environment (GCP)
- `prod`: Production environment (GCP)
